.\" Man page for ocode run
.TH OCODE-RUN 1 "June 2025" "ocode" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ocode-run \- Run a prompt non-interactively (headless mode)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ocode run
[\fIoptions\fR] [\fImessage\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Run a prompt non-interactively without starting the TUI. Useful for automation,
scripting, and CI/CD pipelines.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-prompt\fR, \fB\-p\fR \fI<text>\fR
Prompt text. Can also be provided as positional arguments.
.TP
\fB\-model\fR, \fB\-m\fR \fI<model>\fR
Model to use (overrides config).
.TP
\fB\-agent\fR \fI<name>\fR
Agent name/mode to use.
.TP
\fB\-session\fR, \fB\-s\fR \fI<id>\fR
Session ID to resume.
.TP
\fB\-continue\fR, \fB\-c\fR
Continue the most recent session.
.TP
\fB\-fork\fR
Fork from the most recent session (creates new session).
.TP
\fB\-file\fR, \fB\-f\fR \fI<path>\fR
File(s) to attach to message (can repeat).
.TP
\fB\-format\fR \fI<default|json>\fR
Output format (default: default).
.TP
\fB\-title\fR \fI<text>\fR
Session title.
.TP
\fB\-attach\fR \fI<url>\fR
Attach to running serve instance URL.
.TP
\fB\-port\fR \fI<port>\fR
Serve port (for \fB\-\-attach\fR).
.TP
\fB\-yolo\fR
Allow tools and shell commands without permission prompts.
.TP
\fB\-\-dangerously\-skip\-permissions\fR
Auto-approve permissions (alias for \fB\-yolo\fR).
.TP
\fB\-command\fR \fI<name>\fR
Slash command to run; positional message used as args.
.TP
\fB\-dir\fR \fI<path>\fR
Directory to run in.
.TP
\fB\-username\fR, \fB\-u\fR \fI<name>\fR
Basic auth username for \fB\-\-attach\fR.
.TP
\fB\-password\fR, \fB\-p\fR \fI<pass>\fR
Basic auth password for \fB\-\-attach\fR.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Show this help message and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Basic usage:
.B ocode run "How do I read a file in Go?"
.TP
With specific model:
.B ocode run -model gpt-4 -prompt "Write a hello world"
.TP
Attach file:
.B ocode run -file main.go -prompt "Explain this code"
.TP
Attach to running server:
.B ocode run -attach http://localhost:4096 -prompt "Continue session"
.TP
JSON output:
.B ocode run -format json "Write a test"
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ocode (1),
.BR ocode-serve (1)